So now that we've got the bot
responding to the slash command and kind
of putting the details from the payload
from the user input back into chat,
we wanna do one more thing before we
start dealing with saving that input.
Which is, if somebody's not following our
process, which is pretty common on teams
that I've been on, it's pretty
standard for somebody to kind of
fly in from a meeting and say, hey,
I don't really like chocolate.
If I can type.
And in this case, they're starting
a food fight but in a work context,
they would be saying, hey, we need x or y.
We need your help with this.
We were working on x launch.
And the message flies into Slack,
and then who's responsible for
keeping up on that, right?
Is it the person who posted it is
supposed to be tracking that task?
Is it the team?
It's hard to say.
So what we really want is we want a way to
nudge that person to follow the process,
which we could do by going in here and
being like, hey, please use the process.
But doing it this way it's a tiny conflict
even if it's not actually that tense or
that big of a deal and it's still
just a little moment of you having to
kind of steal yourself to go tell
a co worker that they're wrong and
that they need to do
something a different way.
And that drains energy,
it uses up some of your spoons and
leaves you with less in
the tank to do your job.
So a better way to do this is
to let a robot do it for us.
So we are going to add
a context menu shortcut, so
that we can ask people without
having to type anything to them.
We just wanna be able,
instead of having to do it this way.
We wanna open up this menu here,
and then ask them to do a thing.
So, to handle that,
we're going to go back to the browser.
And we're gonna get into our interactivity
and shortcuts menu again, and
we're gonna create a new one.
Now to create a new one,
we want this to work on messages.
So there's an option globally to just
hit that little lightning bolt icon and
it'll give you options
of things you wanna do.
But in our case,
we're responding directly to a message, so
we want this to be on Messages.
So we're gonna hit that hit next and
then we are going to give it some details.
So the details that we want to
include our request to food fight and
that's gonna be what shows up in the menu.
And then we wanna have a short description
and this is going to be something that
just kind of gives some details on
why you would use this context menu.
So, did your coworker just
offend your food sensibilities?
Ask them to start a food fight so
you can lay into them for
eating incorrectly.
And then as a callback ID, this can be
anything you want as long as it's unique,
and I'm gonna call this one
start food fight nudge.
So I'm gonna hit Create and
then this is a little unintuitive.
You also have to hit Save or else it's
not going to do what you wanted to do.
So, I have now saved and
I'm gonna come out here and reload and
then we can see that we've
got the request a food fight.
I hit the wrong button.
Request a food fight, and
it'll say it didn't work and
that's because we're not handling it yet.
So then we can open this up and
we're going to add a new case in here.
So we're gonna say case, and
it's going to be start food-fight-nudge,
and then that'll have a break down below.
Then we can collapse these so
that we can focus on just the piece
that we're worried about.
Great, the first thing we need is we need
to figure out what channel the nudge was
sent from.
And that comes from our payload.
And the channel, and
then we'll grab the id.
Next, we wanna know who was the person
that needs to be nudged because we're
gonna tag them.
So user id, and that's gonna
come out of the payload user id.
Then we need to know what the thread is
that we're in because what we're doing is
we're going to send this as a response to
their message in a thread as opposed to
a public channel, which it's just a little
bit more subtle than like publicly
blasting somebody for
not following the process.
We do want it to be public so that people
can see that there is a process and
it needs to be followed.
But we don't need to do
the main channel,
at user put them on blast kind of thing.
So we're gonna grab
the thread timestamp and
there are two places that can come from.
If you are already in a thread, there's
gonna be the parent thread timestamp,
and if you are replying to
a message with its first reply,
you're just gonna use
the message timestamp itself.
So we're gonna check if
it's in a thread first,
that's payload message thread timestamp.
And if that doesn't exist, we're gonna
get the payload message timestamp.
With those details, we can send our
message, so we're gonna await Slack API.
We're gonna use the chat.postMessage, and
what we wanna send is the channel, so
that's where it's going, the thread ts, so
that it goes into the right reply,
and then we need to set up our text.
And so this is going to be just a nudge
to remind somebody that like, hey,
you should use the process.
So we'll say, hey and tag them and
that's their user id.
And again, these pointy boys
are a way of Slack letting you
link in a not markdown, but
they call it markdown way.
And we can say an opinion like this
one deserves a heated public debate.
Run the and
then we wanna use some backticks here so
we're gonna escape them and
we'll say slash food fight.
Wanna make this wrap.
Food fight slash command in
a main channel to start one.
And I call out main channel because
slash commands don't work in threads,
which is a little bit of a pain.
And it's a bit confusing because like
the "giphy" command does work in threads,
but that's a special case that Slack.
They just decided that that was
the way things were gonna be.
There's no way to make your
app work in a thread so
you just have to nudge people
to go back to the main thread.
If they do try to use it in a thread,
it will tell them that.
So it's not a big deal,
it's just a thing to be aware of.
So I'm gonna save this, And now if I
go back out to the Slack instance,
I'm gonna refresh by hitting Cmd+R,
because sometimes it takes a second for
this to load.
I have two of these for
reasons I don't understand.
But the one that we just added
is the top one here, and
that is going to show our message.
So it created a thread, it tagged
the person who made the request, and
it gives them a next step.
So this is a nice little process nudge
that gives people a clue of what they
should be doing next, right?
So again, you're just trying
to take that mental burden,
that emotional burden off of somebody of
having to go in and be the process cop.
You want the bot to just gently and
very uniformly, same treatment for
everybody, remind them that
processes are processes.
And this is the way that
work gets done here.